There is a great moment in the movie Jerry Maguire where Tom Cruise's sports agent character finally snaps at the increasingly ludicrous sacrifices he is required to make in the service of his high-maintenance client, a footballer (the American kind). "I am out here for YOU," he explodes. "You have no idea what it is like to be ME, out here for YOU. It is an up-at-dawn, pride-swallowing siege that I will NEVER fully tell you about, OK . . ." So, then, to Baden-Baden, where it is difficult to imagine these words being shouted by an England Wag at her husband with any kind of credibility. Of course, the England football players' Wags (wives and girlfriends, in case you have been trapped in the Tora Bora mountains for the past fortnight and have failed to familiarise yourself with what promises to be this year's most tediously predictable new OED entry) are technically out here in Germany for their husbands/boyfriends. And, of course, there is a bit of a siege mentality, particularly given the hilarious FA gaffe that saw the Wags and their entourages billeted in the same hotel as most of the journalists deputised to cover them. And, of course, the Wags have been up at dawn on a few occasions, mainly on their way back home after a night out. Maxi's nightclub in Baden-Baden opens at the weekends only, which is helpful for the Monday editions of the British tabloid press, whose readers have already been treated to a grainy snatched photograph of Frank Lampard's girlfriend Elen Rives dancing on a table in the small hours of Sunday. According to reporters, who will have made up the vast majority of other punters in this genteel spa town's one after-hours venue, Elen was singing along to I Will Survive. The rest of the playlist is unknown, though Guardian readers who fancy a flutter could do worse than stick a fiver on the trifecta being completed by Girls Just Wanna Have Fun and Like a Virgin. All in all, despite all these caveats, the Wag gig is not too taxing physically. Emotionally? Oh, emotionally it's a helluva slog. But anyone observing the Wags on tour could reasonably conclude that Elen and co weren't tempting fate with their choice of disco anthem. You have to think they will just about survive this trip. Naturally, they could not have done it without their Mads (mums and dads, of whom more later). Nor could they have done it, apparently, without various bafflingly staffed entourages, Coleen McLoughlin's tan therapist, and the eight members of Jamie Carragher's family split between just two rooms at what convention demands we style the luxury £1,000-a-night Brenner's Park hotel in Baden-Baden. Even so, the Wags trip has not been without its crises. After Tuesday's game against Sweden in Cologne, the private jet chartered to take our heroines back to their base was delayed, forcing a wait which reportedly caused Victoria Beckham to lose her temper with the FA officials and remark that "a dog gets better treatment than this". This isn't strictly true - even Lassie in her pomp travelled in the hold - but the idea that at times you would not swap this posting for a mini-break in Ramadi should be quashed from the get-go. The cliche about footballers' wives dictates that they form the kind of rigid girly hierarchies last seen at the back of the school bus, are manicured on the hour, and can drop the GDP of Ecuador in a two-hour shopping spree. Generously, the England Wags on this tour have refused to plunge the nation back home into an epistemological crisis by doing anything like going for brisk hikes in the Black Forest, visiting any notable local cultural landmarks or colonising the town's arthouse cinema. Nor is it believed any book groups have been established, though you can bet your last euro that three of them will be reading M Scott Peck's teeth-grindingly vapid "personal growth" tome, The Road Less Travelled. Instead, their days are spent thus. Carly Zucker, Joe Cole's fitness-instructor girlfriend - to repeat, she has a job - takes a small party out jogging in the morning. The rest of the day is passed in a cheery whirl of poolside drinks, glamorous child-rearing and shopping (obviously), before winding up for dinner in one of the three Baden-Baden restaurants that have been deemed worthy of patronage. And then there are the set pieces, which thus far the Wags have played well off. Chief among these is the group exit from the hotel and the boarding of the bus to take them to an England game, which feels like it should be taking place in the slo-mo style already dubbed Reservoir Wags. Victoria Beckham's role in this particular move is to emerge at the last minute in the manner of an opera diva, albeit one who has swallowed a few more tapeworms than Maria Callas. Alas, Victoria has mostly been having one of her Garbo weeks, preferring to restrict herself to the company of her family and Cheryl Tweedy, Ashley Cole's fiancee and member of a girl band - which, you may recall, was Victoria's occupation sometime in the mid-Mesozoic period. At other times, she has been spotted in town with a heavy security detail to keep Baden-Baden's largely pensioner-age population at bay, and wearing the giant sunglasses that are the showbiz signal for "please leave me alone until the launch of my next project". Still, during the Sweden game, it was noted that Victoria was relaxed enough to feel no qualms about ordering FA minions to fetch a constant supply of drinks for her quixotically named offspring. By way of a coda to this royal tableau, one insider assures the Guardian that Waggishness is catching. The girlfriend of one of the Manchester United masseurs who accompanied Wayne Rooney stayed at Wag HQ for less than a fortnight, during which time she was taken to their collective silicone bosom. Described as "down to earth" on arrival, when a fellow guest offered to carry her case to the check-out desk on her departure, she simply nodded brusquely and stalked out of the lift leaving the bag in question on the floor for him to gather up. Assimilation complete. Crucially, lest anyone assume some lower-league club will be going without half-time oranges next season because John Terry's girlfriend wants another French pedicure, we are reminded by FA officials that the Wags are paying for themselves. Admittedly, there is the suspicion that they are "paying for themselves" in the same way that Coleen offered to "go halves" with Rooney on a £50,000 donation to a dog shelter in Rio Ferdinand's agonisingly silly World Cup Wind-ups programme. Namely, he pays both halves. But do consider that Coleen's employment portfolio now includes a weekly magazine column ("Welcome to My World", in Closer), a forthcoming book, and being the spokesmodel for Asda, so she might at least be able to chip in a percentage of the £35,000 that a five-week stay at Brenner's Park is estimated to cost. Although some would argue it is becoming increasingly clear that all calculations should realistically be commuted down to just the three weeks. However, it is a mark of the media's desire to shoehorn our heroines into their stock characters that all figures are estimated up. Consider how much was made of the fact that five of the Wags had spent £4,000 in less than an hour, which - adjusted for salary - is presumably the equivalent of the average working person popping out for a paper and 20 B&H. For others, the stretch is a little too far. Melanie Slade, girlfriend of Theo Walcott, has evidently judged Brenner's Park to be just out of the price range of someone currently sitting their A-levels, and is staying elsewhere. Frankly, you do not know the meaning of the word forlorn until you have watched this understandably gauche 17-year-old being escorted into town to buy an ice cream by two burly FA security minders. Of course, everything changes on the days when Sven gives his players a pass out to see their families, which, in timeworn tabloid parlance, must be referred to as a "nookie pass". You might judge there to be something faintly distasteful about the image of the Wags as on-call sexual helpmeets. On such occasions, it is rather difficult not to think of the Wags as cast in the mould of Fembots in the Austin Powers movie - hopelessly seductive pleasure machines clad in baby-doll nighties. Of course, the Fembots are, in fact, trained killers, firing bullets from their nipples, so if England crash out to Ecuador on Sunday, do expect someone to blame the snuffing out of a nation's hopes on Sven's dedication to getting his players sexually serviced by these latterday sirens. It is these concerns - and, in truth, a lot of journalists with pages to fill - that have prompted a bewildering split in opinion on the Wags. On the one hand is the backlash against them - call it the Waglash - with those such as the Daily Mail's terminally joyless Stephen Glover viewing their behaviour and very presence in Germany as the fifth horseman of the apocalypse, a view somewhat compromised by snobbish references to the "little Liverpool" the wives have fashioned for themselves in this corner of Germany. On the other side of the fence are those who welcome the benefits of the kind of access the FA's unfortunate accommodation booking has given them. The Daily Mirror's Oliver Holt noted earlier this week that, over the past couple of decades, top brass's determination to keep players apart from those who write about them had bred a hopelessly unhealthy bitterness on both sides, whereas his polite conversations in the Brenner's Park bar with, among others, Peter Crouch's well-liked parents Bruce and Jane, had given him and other writers a valuable insight into the mood in the England camp. Writing a piece the next day, he had struck out yet another instinctive reference to the striker's height, noting wryly that it was a small but significant step towards detente. All of which brings us to the devoted mums and dads, because the real boiler room of the Wags camp is the parents of the players. The most experienced hand at the media game, Sandra Beckham, can reportedly spot a reporter at 40 paces and identify them by name and organisation at 20. The Mads are fiercely protective of their sons, and while some are unappealingly so, the general outbreak of civility between those who are not used to being in close quarters with the enemy is judged by many on both sides to be refreshing. It is the Mads who take on duties of care in what, at times, appears to be a giant creche, and the Mads who, by and large, are not in town to dance on tables or buy handbags, but to provide unwavering support during what might be the pinnacle of the career in which they have lovingly encouraged their son from infancy. Never mind that, watching the England wives and girlfriends succumb to another shopping expedition this week, you could be forgiven for thinking that if there is a football tournament going on near these parts, it's certainly keeping a very discreet distance. The time has come to accept that resistance is futile. It's the Wags' World Cup.